---
layout: inner
title: 'Summer 2016!'
date: 2017-03-22 13:26:34
categories: summer judaism
tags: 
featured_image: https://mitzvahcorps.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/32/2016/07/pasted-image-0-1000x400.jpg
lead_text: 'This is a blog I wrote about the summer program I did last summer. Check it out!'
---


Last summer I attended a summer program for jewish teens called Urban Mitzvah Corps. Previously I had been going to the same day camp for 8 years, but I decided to something new and I never looked back. During the day we would do volunteer work, but we also did different programs, went on day-trips on the weekends, and overall it was a great experience. 
 
I copied the blog that I wrote during the program last summer!
 


<p> <blockquote> The first time I stepped out of my comfort zone was when I learned how to ride my bike. For the longest time, I was terrified of the possible pain and failure that came with trying something new. Even though it was quite possible that I could fall and injure myself, I felt this was a skill that I needed at that age, so I decided to hop on my bike. It was then that my dad gave me a push that set me on the path to a magical moment outside of my comfort zone. 
Here at Urban Mitzvah Corps in New Jersey, we are required to do things we are uncomfortable with everyday. Whether it be doing laundry for the first time, talking to someone that you have just met, or volunteering at a place that is alien to you. At UMC, there are tons of opportunities for participants to step out of their comfort zone, and sometimes, all you need is that push to set you on the path to an extraordinary experience.
From my first day here, everyone has been extremely welcoming and enthusiastic; I knew right away that my summer was going to be unforgettable. The other participants come from all over the country and practice Judaism in their own diverse ways, which gives me the opportunity to learn from every single person in the program. From learning a new song to participating in a tradition that someone else has shared with the group, I am continually stepping out of my comfort zone, which allows me to be educated in all the wonders of Reform Judaism. 
Everyone’s willingness to try new things has made it easier for me to do the same. For example, I tried meditation for the first time this summer. There are very few times in my life when I am able to sit down in the grass, and do nothing but relax and take in all of the things around me. UMC gives us a break from the frustrations that can come with school work, family, and being a teenager. Being here with a group of amazing individuals is a great way to cope with these stresses that can seem unbearable at times.  
Over the past two weeks, I volunteered at a nursing home called Regency Jewish Heritage. This was a turning point in my life because it was the first time that I felt that I was making a difference in other people’s lives. Originally, I was nervous to choose this location because I had very little experience working with the elderly; I was afraid of the situations I could potentially be put in. However, I decided to step out of my comfort zone and see where the experience would take me. 
One unforgettable moment that I had at Regency was when we brought a group of residents to the beach. This was an enlightening adventure not only for us participants, but for the residents as well. As I walked up and down the boardwalk with one lady that was over one hundred years old, she told me how she had not been outside in years, yet alone to the beach. She continued to talk to me about how she used to go to the beach with her husband and her children, which brought obvious joy to her. Watching the residents’ faces light up as they looked out at the beach, breathing in the fresh air, was an extremely heartwarming experience. 
For the rest of my time at Regency, I would check in on this resident daily. Every single day, I would ask her how she was doing and every day she would tell me that she could see, hear, and breathe and that that’s all that mattered, because many others can not. This taught me that I should take advantage of the things that I have. I have the ability to breathe on my own, see, and hear, which is something I shouldn’t take for granted.
Overall, Urban Mitzvah Corps has given me the opportunity to step out of my comfort zone and try new things. Even though this was scary for me at first, all I needed was a simple push from my peers and the staff here in New Brunswick. I would not be having this unforgettable summer without all of them; I have learned that in order to let magic moments happen, I need to get comfortable with being uncomfortable. </blockquote>

<p> Ultimately this program was a life changing experience, it made me realize how important it is for me to act on all of the problems in our world, it made me more involved in my Jewish life, and most of all I made friends that will last a lifetime and I cannot imagine my life today if I had not met them. </p> 


<font size="7" color="Blue">-Ethan
 
